There are some people actually hoping for a SHTF situation. They are tired of all the needy people that constantly complain. I will admit, sometimes it seems like the world needs to hit the reset button, but we need to think about the implications of saying something like that. I’ve read estimates of up to 90 percent of the US population passing away during hypothetical SHTF scenarios. 90 percent… that’s not the criminals and bad people in the world, that’s friends and family.

Taking the time plan and investing in the right SHTF gear could save your life or the lives of your loved ones.

If you have everything on this list, you’ll be living comfortably while your neighbors are struggling to survive. If you like them, you’ll be able to help them out, otherwise, you’ll have peace and quiet going forward.

Now, lets cover a good SHTF gear list.
1. SHTF Guns, Knives, and Weapons

Utilize Non-Lethal Options When Possible

Not every situation justifies deadly force. As much as we all want to our moneys worth on our recent AR purchase, we need to be responsible! Don’t get me wrong, I’m all for loading up on boom-sticks and hand cannons, but it’s a good idea to have some non-lethal SHTF weapons as well.

You have to remember, in a SHTF situation ordinarily good people may be forced to act uncharacteristically in order to provide for their family. So, while right now you could never image your neighbor breaking into your home, when SHTF and their family is struggling and hungry you may be surprised by what they’re capable of. I will have an entire section dedicated to SHTF Guns, but here I’ll discuss SHTF weapons that are non-lethal.

1. Standard Pepper Spray
In the less than lethal weapon world pepper spray is pretty much the gold standard. On top of being extremely effective, it’s very affordable. You can pick up a reliable can for under 10 bucks.

If you’re someone that’s intimidated by the idea of carrying a real firearm, or you’re in an area where firearms aren’t permitted, pepper spray is a great alternative.

It’s very effective, I mean, it can be used to incapacitate bears, so you can bet your ass it’s going to stop some punk trying to steal your emergency food rations.

There are my different brands on the market. Range and canister capacity varies greatly from product to product, but to be honest the one I listed here will do.

A Dog that Doesn’t Run When the Door Opens
When it comes to personal protection, a Yorkshire Terrier isn’t going to do you much good. They’re all bark and no bite. They love to act tough, but as the door opens they’re suddenly nowhere to be found.

So what kinds of dogs are we talking about…

Usually, the same breeds that the military and police use. If trained properly, dogs can be one of the best and most practical home defense tools. In fact, homes with dogs are far less likely to be broken into. In surveys conducted on deterrents to crime, many burglars admit that dogs and security cameras major determinants to crime; they say they these houses with dogs or cameras are more difficult to break into and are more likely to draw attention. Here are some breeds that are known to take down bad guys.

    German Shepherd
    Doberman Pinscher
    Rottweiler
    Great Dane
    Huskies
    Belgian Malinois
    BULLDOGS!!!
    And many more (I can’t list them all here), but you get the idea. Big dogs with teeth!

Oh and don’t worry, if trained properly they’re totally safe to have around kids.
